README.md, before:

uwu
===

uwu is a build system and the software for the uwu Bitcoin hardware
wallet.

![uwu](res/uwu.png)

You can donate BTC to support uwu development:
[1Ai71EmjbVBu1QjwKeVEWSG2S1np6VtGEb](bitcoin:1Ai71EmjbVBu1QjwKeVEWSG2S1np6VtGEb)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/parazyd/uwu.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/parazyd/uwu)


Table of Contents
=================

   * [uwu](#uwu)
      * [Concept](#concept)
      * [Building uwu](#building-uwu)
         * [Environment setup](#environment-setup)
         * [Compiling](#compiling)
      * [Hardware](#hardware)
         * [Preparation](#preparation)
      * [Using uwu](#using-uwu)
      * [License and copyright](#license-and-copyright)


Concept
-------

uwu is designed as a Bitcoin hardware wallet for people who are
comfortable with the command line. There are no methods to handhold you
with lousy apps and interfaces, instead, everything is available to the
user and you can utilize the full power of the command line to work with
your wallet.

Conceptually, uwu is supposed to run securely on a Raspberry Pi Zero and
provide a serial console by utilizing Linux's USB gadget subsystem. Upon
connecting your uwu device to your computer (or maybe another device
like a mobile phone), uwu will appear as a serial console you can
connect to and issue commands.

uwu's kernel is a minimal build of mainline Linux, with no loadable
module support. Everything that is necessary is compiled in, so there's
no filesystem latency to load modules.

In the userspace, uwu's backend is
[Electrum](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum). It runs as a daemon in
offline mode and the user can interface with it by using the serial
console. This means a single uwu device can have as many wallets and as
many users(!) as you want.

As further development happens, this concept will evolve, and this
document will contain practical usage examples of uwu. Stay tuned!


Building uwu
------------

This build system's goal is to create a cpio archive that can be
extracted on a microSD card to be used on the Raspberry Pi Zero.

The following sections will explain how to set up the build environment
and will show the necessary configurations. Personally, I have this set
up on Gentoo, so the steps will mostly reflect Gentoo environments, but
it shouldn't be a problem to adapt for any other Linux distribution.
Perhaps it's useful to also check the
[travisfile](https://github.com/parazyd/uwu/blob/master/.travis.yml) in
this repository for reference.

### Environment setup

First, clone this repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/parazyd/uwu
```

After we have it, we can start configuring things. The entire
configuration is done in `config.mk`. We simply need to insert a valid
path to a static `qemu-arm` binary that can be used in the ARM chroot,
and a valid (cross)compiler prefix. The Raspberry Pi Zero needs an
`armv6` architecture compiler. The rest of the variables will be updated
as new software versions are released.

Further on, we need to setup `binfmt_misc`. Your system's kernel config
should contain `CONFIG_BINFMT_MISC=m` or `CONFIG_BINFMT_MISC=y`.

Mount the `binfmt_misc` handler if it's not already:

```
# [ -d /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc ] || modprobe binfmt_misc
# [ -f /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/register ] || mount binfmt_misc -t binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc
```

After we have this, we need to register our format with procfs:

```
# echo ':arm:M::\x7fELF\x01\x01\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x02\x00\x28\x00:\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\x00\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xfe\xff\xff\xff:/qemu-wrapper:' > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/register
```

Once done, usually you should have an initscript to (re)start the binfmt
service.

On Gentoo/OpenRC:

```
# /etc/init.d/qemu-binfmt start
```

If all went well, we're done with our build environment and we can start
compiling uwu!


### Compiling

To compile uwu and get the resulting cpio archive, we can issue

```
$ make -j$(nproc) image
```

Some commands need `sudo` permissions, so be sure the user you're
building with is able to use sudo. **Do not build as root!**

This will probably take a little bit. When this is issued, the build
system will start downloading the necessary source code and binaries. It
will be compiling the Linux kernel, and setting up and configuring an
Alpine Linux chroot. Once done, the chroot will be packed and compressed
into a cpio archive which can then be extracted on a microSD card we can
use with our Raspberry Pi Zero.


Hardware
--------

* [Raspberry Pi Zero](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-zero/)
* [SPI display](https://www.waveshare.com/product/2.13inch-e-paper-hat.htm)
* Class 10 microSD card (256M or more)
* Micro USB cable


### Preparation

TODO


Using uwu
---------

TODO


License and copyright
---------------------

* uwu and its components are licensed with
  [GPL-3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt).
* Raspberry Pi firmware is licensed from Broadcom Corporation and
  Raspberry Pi Ltd.

Commit message:

Add potential build hang sidenote in Readme.

README.md, after:

uwu
===

uwu is a build system and the software for the uwu Bitcoin hardware
wallet.

![uwu](res/uwu.png)

You can donate BTC to support uwu development:
[1Ai71EmjbVBu1QjwKeVEWSG2S1np6VtGEb](bitcoin:1Ai71EmjbVBu1QjwKeVEWSG2S1np6VtGEb)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/parazyd/uwu.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/parazyd/uwu)


Table of Contents
=================

   * [uwu](#uwu)
      * [Concept](#concept)
      * [Building uwu](#building-uwu)
         * [Environment setup](#environment-setup)
         * [Compiling](#compiling)
      * [Hardware](#hardware)
         * [Preparation](#preparation)
      * [Using uwu](#using-uwu)
      * [License and copyright](#license-and-copyright)


Concept
-------

uwu is designed as a Bitcoin hardware wallet for people who are
comfortable with the command line. There are no methods to handhold you
with lousy apps and interfaces, instead, everything is available to the
user and you can utilize the full power of the command line to work with
your wallet.

Conceptually, uwu is supposed to run securely on a Raspberry Pi Zero and
provide a serial console by utilizing Linux's USB gadget subsystem. Upon
connecting your uwu device to your computer (or maybe another device
like a mobile phone), uwu will appear as a serial console you can
connect to and issue commands.

uwu's kernel is a minimal build of mainline Linux, with no loadable
module support. Everything that is necessary is compiled in, so there's
no filesystem latency to load modules.

In the userspace, uwu's backend is
[Electrum](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum). It runs as a daemon in
offline mode and the user can interface with it by using the serial
console. This means a single uwu device can have as many wallets and as
many users(!) as you want.

As further development happens, this concept will evolve, and this
document will contain practical usage examples of uwu. Stay tuned!


Building uwu
------------

This build system's goal is to create a cpio archive that can be
extracted on a microSD card to be used on the Raspberry Pi Zero.

The following sections will explain how to set up the build environment
and will show the necessary configurations. Personally, I have this set
up on Gentoo, so the steps will mostly reflect Gentoo environments, but
it shouldn't be a problem to adapt for any other Linux distribution.
Perhaps it's useful to also check the
[travisfile](https://github.com/parazyd/uwu/blob/master/.travis.yml) in
this repository for reference.

### Environment setup

First, clone this repository

```
$ git clone https://github.com/parazyd/uwu
```

After we have it, we can start configuring things. The entire
configuration is done in `config.mk`. We simply need to insert a valid
path to a static `qemu-arm` binary that can be used in the ARM chroot,
and a valid (cross)compiler prefix. The Raspberry Pi Zero needs an
`armv6` architecture compiler. The rest of the variables will be updated
as new software versions are released.

Further on, we need to setup `binfmt_misc`. Your system's kernel config
should contain `CONFIG_BINFMT_MISC=m` or `CONFIG_BINFMT_MISC=y`.

Mount the `binfmt_misc` handler if it's not already:

```
# [ -d /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc ] || modprobe binfmt_misc
# [ -f /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/register ] || mount binfmt_misc -t binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc
```

After we have this, we need to register our format with procfs:

```
# echo ':arm:M::\x7fELF\x01\x01\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x02\x00\x28\x00:\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\x00\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xfe\xff\xff\xff:/qemu-wrapper:' > /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/register
```

Once done, usually you should have an initscript to (re)start the binfmt
service.

On Gentoo/OpenRC:

```
# /etc/init.d/qemu-binfmt start
```

If all went well, we're done with our build environment and we can start
compiling uwu!


### Compiling

To compile uwu and get the resulting cpio archive, we can issue

```
$ make -j$(nproc) image
```

Some commands need `sudo` permissions, so be sure the user you're
building with is able to use sudo. **Do not build as root!**

**Sidenote:** If the build seems to be hanging, it might be waiting for
you to input a sudo password. Try inputting it and pressing `Enter` to
continue.  Otherwise, you may want to set up a `NOPASSWD` entry in
sudoers, or something similar to prolong the timeout.

This will probably take a little bit. When this is issued, the build
system will start downloading the necessary source code and binaries. It
will be compiling the Linux kernel, and setting up and configuring an
Alpine Linux chroot. Once done, the chroot will be packed and compressed
into a cpio archive which can then be extracted on a microSD card we can
use with our Raspberry Pi Zero.


Hardware
--------

* [Raspberry Pi Zero](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-zero/)
* [SPI display](https://www.waveshare.com/product/2.13inch-e-paper-hat.htm)
* Class 10 microSD card (256M or more)
* Micro USB cable


### Preparation

TODO


Using uwu
---------

TODO


License and copyright
---------------------

* uwu and its components are licensed with
  [GPL-3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt).
* Raspberry Pi firmware is licensed from Broadcom Corporation and
  Raspberry Pi Ltd.
